Blog about difference between document and window object.

In the world of web development, the Document and Window objects are two fundamental objects that are commonly used to manipulate web pages.
Both of these objects are part of the Document Object Model (DOM), which is a programming interface for web documents.

Although the Document and Window objects are related, they serve different purposes and have different properties and methods.
In this blog, we will explore the differences between the Document and Window objects and their respective roles in web development.

The Document Object

The Document object represents the entire web page and its content.
It is the top-level object in the DOM hierarchy and is used to access and manipulate the content of an HTML document.
The Document object provides access to various properties and methods that can be used to modify the structure, style, and content of a web page.

For instance, you can use the Document object to retrieve elements in the HTML document by their ID, class, or tag name,
as well as to create new elements dynamically and append them to the document.

Here is an example of how you can use the Document object to change the text content of a paragraph:

Example:<script>
// Get the paragraph element by its ID
const paragraph = document.getElementById("my-paragraph");

// Change the text content of the paragraph
paragraph.textContent = "Hello, world!";
```

The Window Object

The Window object represents the browser window or tab that contains the web page.
It is the global object in client-side JavaScript and provides access to various properties and methods that are related to the browser window.

For instance, you can use the Window object to manipulate the browser window, such as changing its size, position, or title.
You can also use it to interact with the user, such as displaying alerts, prompts, or confirmation dialogs.

Here is an example of how you can use the Window object to display an alert message:

Example:<script>
// Display an alert message
window.alert("Hello, world!");
```

Differences between Document and Window Objects

The main difference between the Document and Window objects is that the Document object represents the content of the web page,
while the Window object represents the browser window or tab that displays the web page.

Another difference is that the Document object is part of the DOM hierarchy and is related to the structure and content of the HTML document,
while the Window object is the global object that provides access to various browser-related properties and methods.

In summary, the Document object is used to access and manipulate the content of an HTML document,
while the Window object is used to interact with the browser window and provide browser-related functionality.
By understanding the differences between these two objects, you can leverage their respective properties and methods to create dynamic and interactive web pages.
